# 200

200 is a Canadian point-trick game that originated in the early 1900s. It's similar to Rook but without the special cards.

## Preliminaries

**Players** 4 in fixed, cross-wise partnership.

**Cards** (low) 5-7-8-9-10-J-Q-K-A (high) in four suits, 36 cards. The cards are assigned the following point values:

Card   | Points
------ | ------
5      | 5 
10     | 10
Ace    | 10
Others | 0

There are 100 points in total, 25 in each suit.

**Objective** Work with your partner to take at least as many points in tricks as your bid.

**Deal** Standard procedure, dealing **9 cards** to each player.

## Bidding

A bid represents the minimum number of points the bidder thinks they and their partner can take in tricks. The minimum bid is 50, and each subsequent bid must be a higher multiple of 5 but not higher than 100. A player may pass instead of bidding, but they may not renter the auction.

The **forehand** starts the auction, which continues until all but one player has passed. The remaining player is the declarer. If no one bids, the hand is thrown in unplayed.

## Play

The **declarer** announces the trump suit or no trump, and then leads the first trick. Standard trick-taking rules apply.

## Scoring

If the hand was played with no trump, the points scored by both teams are doubled.

If the declarer's team took at least as many points in tricks as their bid, then they score the points that they took. Otherwise, they lose the value of their bid. The opposing team always scores the points they took in tricks.

Scores are capped at 150. Neither team can have a score between 150 and 200. If the declaring team would have 200 or more points after winning a hand, they score the points and win the game.

## Game

The team that scores 200 points first wins. If a team has a score of -200 or below and the other team has a positive score, then the team with the positive score wins.

## Variations

### With a Kitty

Add back in all of the 6s, making a 40-card deck. Four cards are dealt to the kitty as part of the deal. During the bidding, the dealer must bid if everyone else passes. The declarer takes the kitty into their hand and discards, face down, back to 9 cards prior to naming trump. Any points in the discarded cards go to the winner of the final trick.

## References

- https://www.pagat.com/kt5/200.html