# Rook

## Preliminaries

**Players** 4 in fixed, cross-wise partnership.

**Cards** 4 suits with cards numbered 1 through 14, plus one _Rook_
card. The 1s are high, ranking above the 14s.

| Card   | Points |
|:-------|:-------|
| 5      | 5      |
| 10     | 10     |
| 14     | 10     |
| 1      | 15     |
| Rook   | 20     |
| Others | 0      |

**Rook** It is the lowest ranked trump card, below the 2. When there
is no trump, the Rook is the only trump card, and when it is led to a
trick the other players may follow with any card.

**Points** There are 40 points in each suit and 20 points for the
Rook, bringing the total number of points per hand to 180.

**Objective** Work with your partner to take at least as many points
in tricks as your bid.

**Deal** Standard procedure, dealing **13 cards** to each player and 5
cards to the talon, which is called "the nest."

## Bidding

A bid represents the minimum number of points the bidder thinks they
and their partner can take in tricks. The minimum bid is 75, and each
subsequent bid must be a higher multiple of 5 but not higher than 180.
A player may pass instead of bidding, but they may not renter the
auction.

The **forehand** starts the auction, which continues until all but one
player has passed. The remaining player is the **declarer**. If no one
bids, the hand is thrown in and re-dealt.

The declarer takes the entire nest into their hand and discards 5
cards. The discarded cards are set aside and go to the team that wins
the final trick.

Finally, the declarer announces the trump suit, or no trump, as well
as if the cards rank in ascending order ("normal") or descending order
(reverse). Regardless of the order, the Rook is always the lowest
ranked trump.

## Play

The player to the **left of the declarer** leads the first trick.
Standard trick-taking rules apply.

## Scoring

The team that wins the final trick captures all of the cards in the
nest. Each team now counts how many points they took.

If the declarer's team took at least as many points in tricks as their
bid, then they score the points that they took. Otherwise, they lose
the value of their bid. The opposing team always scores the points
they took in tricks.

Scores are capped at 430; neither team can have a score between 430
and 500. If the declaring team would have 500 or more points after
winning a hand, they score the points and win the game.

## Game

The team that scores 500 points first wins.

## Variations

### Standard Deck

A standard deck may be used. Use a joker for the Rook, and only deal
hands of 12 cards. Kings are worth 10 and aces are worth 15. The rest
of the game is the same.

### 5 Players

The deck is the same. Each player is dealt 11 cards and the nest
gets 2. After the declarer declares trump, they call for a card, and
the player who holds the card is their partner for the hand. This
player does not reveal themselves, except through playing the called
card. The other three players play together to prevent the declarer's
team from making their bid. If the declarer calls a card in their own
hand or in the nest, they play alone against the other four. Scoring
is the same except that each player individually scores the points
their team made.

## References

- http://www.rookgame.com/official-rules/
- https://www.pagat.com/kt5/rook.html
- https://www.boardgamegeek.com/thread/185722/official-rules-four-player-partnership-rook
